Data Processing and Security Terms (Customers)
Last modified: Oct 10, 2018

The customer agreeing to these terms (“Customer”), and GrowReel, or any other entity that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with GrowReel (as applicable, “GrowReel”), have entered into an agreement under which GrowReel has agreed to provide GrowReel and related technical support to Customer (as amended from time to time, the "Agreement").

These Data Processing and Security Terms, including their appendices (the “Terms”) will be effective and replace any previously applicable data processing and security terms as from the Terms Effective Date (as defined below).

These Terms supplement the Agreement. Where the Agreement was entered into offline with GrowReel Ireland Limited, these Terms supersede the “Privacy” Clause in that agreement (if applicable).

1. Introduction
These Terms reflect the parties’ agreement with respect to the terms governing the processing and security of Customer Data under the Agreement.

2. Definitions
2.1 Capitalized terms used but not defined in these Terms have the meanings set out in the Agreement. In these Terms, unless stated otherwise:

Additional Security Controls means security resources, features, functionality and/or controls that Customer may use at its option and/or as it determines, including the Admin Console and other features and/or functionality of the Services such as encryption, logging and monitoring, identity and access management, security scanning, and firewalls.
Agreed Liability Cap means the maximum monetary or payment-based amount at which a party’s liability is capped under the Agreement, either per annual period or event giving rise to liability, as applicable.
Alternative Transfer Solution means a solution, other than the Model Contract Clauses, that enables the lawful transfer of personal data to a third country in accordance with Article 45 or 46 of the GDPR.
Audited Services means the Services indicated as being in-scope for the relevant certification, as may be updated by GrowReel from time to time, provided that GrowReel may only remove a Deprecation Policy Service from such URL if that Service has been discontinued in accordance with the Deprecation Policy.
Customer Data has the meaning given in the Agreement or, if no such meaning is given, means data provided by or on behalf of Customer or Customer End Users via the Services under the Account.
Customer End Users has the meaning given in the Agreement or, if not such meaning is given, has the meaning given to “End Users” in the Agreement.
Customer Personal Data means the personal data contained within the Customer Data.
Data Incident means a breach of GrowReel’s security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, Customer Data on systems managed by or otherwise controlled by GrowReel. “Data Incidents” will not include unsuccessful attempts or activities that do not compromise the security of Customer Data, including unsuccessful log-in attempts, pings, port scans, denial of service attacks, and other network attacks on firewalls or networked systems.
EEA means the European Economic Area.
European Data Protection Legislation means, as applicable: (a) the GDPR; and/or (b) the Federal Data Protection Act of 19 June 1992 (Switzerland).
GDPR means Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC.
GrowReel’s Third Party Auditor means a GrowReel-appointed, qualified and independent third party auditor, whose then-current identity GrowReel will disclose to Customer.
ISO 27001 Certification means an ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certification or a comparable certification for the Audited Services.
ISO 27017 Certification means an ISO/IEC 27017:2015 certification or a comparable certification for the Audited Services.
ISO 27018 Certification means an ISO/IEC 27018:2014 certification or a comparable certification for the Audited Services.
Model Contract Clauses or MCCs mean the standard data protection clauses for the transfer of personal data to processors established in third countries which do not ensure an adequate level of data protection, as described in Article 46 of the GDPR.
Non-European Data Protection Legislation means data protection or privacy legislation in force outside the European Economic Area and Switzerland.
Notification Email Address means the email address(es) designated by Customer in the Admin Console, or in the Order Form or Ordering Document (as applicable), to receive certain notifications from GrowReel.
Security Documentation means all documents and information made available by GrowReel under Section 7.5.1 (Reviews of Security Documentation).
Security Measures has the meaning given in Section 7.1.1 (GrowReel’s Security Measures).
SOC 2 Report means a confidential Service Organization Control (SOC) 2 report (or a comparable report) on GrowReel’s systems examining logical security controls, physical security controls, and system availability, as produced by GrowReel’s Third Party Auditor in relation to the Audited Services.
SOC 3 Report means a Service Organization Control (SOC) 3 report (or a comparable report), as produced by GrowReel’s Third Party Auditor in relation to the Audited Services.
Subprocessors means third parties authorized under these Terms to have logical access to and process Customer Data in order to provide parts of the Services and TSS.
Term means the period from the Terms Effective Date until the end of GrowReel’s provision of the Services, including, if applicable, any period during which provision of the Services may be suspended and any post-termination period during which GrowReel may continue providing the Services for transitional purposes.
Terms Effective Date means the date on which Customer accepted, or the parties otherwise agreed to, these Terms.
2.2 The terms “personal data”, “data subject”, “processing”, “controller”, “processor” and “supervisory authority” as used in these Terms have the meanings given in the GDPR, and the terms “data importer” and “data exporter” have the meanings given in the Model Contract Clauses, in each case irrespective of whether the European Data Protection Legislation or Non-European Data Protection Legislation applies.

3. Duration of these Terms
These Terms will take effect on the Terms Effective Date and, notwithstanding expiry of the Term, will remain in effect until, and automatically expire upon, deletion of all Customer Data by GrowReel as described in these Terms.

4. Scope of Data Protection Legislation
4.1 Application of European Legislation. The parties acknowledge and agree that the European Data Protection Legislation will apply to the processing of Customer Personal Data if, for example:

the processing is carried out in the context of the activities of an establishment of Customer in the territory of the EEA; and/or
the Customer Personal Data is personal data relating to data subjects who are in the EEA and the processing relates to the offering to them of goods or services in the EEA or the monitoring of their behaviour in the EEA.
4.2 Application of Non-European Legislation. The parties acknowledge and agree that Non-European Data Protection Legislation may also apply to the processing of Customer Personal Data.

4.3 Application of Terms. Except to the extent these Terms state otherwise, these Terms will apply irrespective of whether the European Data Protection Legislation or Non-European Data Protection Legislation applies to the processing of Customer Personal Data.

5. Processing of Data
5.1 Roles and Regulatory Compliance; Authorization.

5.1.1 Processor and Controller Responsibilities. If the European Data Protection Legislation applies to the processing of Customer Personal Data, the parties acknowledge and agree that:

the subject matter and details of the processing are described in Appendix 1;
GrowReel is a processor of that Customer Personal Data under the European Data Protection Legislation;
Customer is a controller or processor, as applicable, of that Customer Personal Data under European Data Protection Legislation; and
each party will comply with the obligations applicable to it under the European Data Protection Legislation with respect to the processing of that Customer Personal Data.
5.1.2 Authorization by Third Party Controller. If the European Data Protection Legislation applies to the processing of Customer Personal Data and Customer is a processor, Customer warrants to GrowReel that Customer’s instructions and actions with respect to that Customer Personal Data, including its appointment of GrowReel as another processor, have been authorized by the relevant controller.

5.1.3 Responsibilities under Non-European Legislation. If Non-European Data Protection Legislation applies to either party’s processing of Customer Personal Data, the parties acknowledge and agree that the relevant party will comply with any obligations applicable to it under that legislation with respect to the processing of that Customer Personal Data.

5.2 Scope of Processing.

5.2.1 Customer’s Instructions. By entering into these Terms, Customer instructs GrowReel to process Customer Personal Data only in accordance with applicable law: (a) to provide the Services and TSS; (b) as further specified via Customer’s use of the Services (including the Admin Console and other functionality of the Services) and TSS; (c) as documented in the form of the Agreement, including these Terms; and (d) as further documented in any other written instructions given by Customer and acknowledged by GrowReel as constituting instructions for purposes of these Terms.

5.2.2 GrowReel’s Compliance with Instructions. GrowReel will comply with the instructions described in Section 5.2.1 (Customer’s Instructions) (including with regard to data transfers) unless EU or EU Member State law to which GrowReel is subject requires other processing of Customer Personal Data by GrowReel, in which case GrowReel will inform Customer (unless that law prohibits GrowReel from doing so on important grounds of public interest) via the Notification Email Address.

6. Data Deletion
6.1 Deletion by Customer. GrowReel will enable Customer to delete Customer Data during the Term in a manner consistent with the functionality of the Services. If Customer uses the Services to delete any Customer Data during the Term and that Customer Data cannot be recovered by Customer, this use will constitute an instruction to GrowReel to delete the relevant Customer Data from GrowReel’s systems in accordance with applicable law. GrowReel will comply with this instruction as soon as reasonably practicable and within a maximum period of 180 days, unless EU or EU Member State law requires storage.

6.2 Deletion on Termination. On expiry of the Term, Customer instructs GrowReel to delete all Customer Data (including existing copies) from GrowReel’s systems in accordance with applicable law. GrowReel will, after a recovery period of up to 30 days following such expiry, comply with this instruction as soon as reasonably practicable and within a maximum period of 180 days, unless EU or EU Member State law requires storage. Without prejudice to Section 9.1 (Access; Rectification; Restricted Processing; Portability), Customer acknowledges and agrees that Customer will be responsible for exporting, before the Term expires, any Customer Data it wishes to retain afterwards.

7. Data Security
7.1 GrowReel’s Security Measures, Controls and Assistance.

7.1.1 GrowReel’s Security Measures. GrowReel will implement and maintain technical and organizational measures to protect Customer Data against accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access as described in Appendix 2 (the "Security Measures"). As described in Appendix 2, the Security Measures include measures to encrypt personal data; to help ensure ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of GrowReel’s systems and services; to help restore timely access to personal data following an incident; and for regular testing of effectiveness. GrowReel may update or modify the Security Measures from time to time provided that such updates and modifications do not result in the degradation of the overall security of the Services.

7.1.2 Security Compliance by GrowReel Staff. GrowReel will take appropriate steps to ensure compliance with the Security Measures by its employees, contractors and Subprocessors to the extent applicable to their scope of performance, including ensuring that all persons authorized to process Customer Personal Data have committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality.

7.1.3 Additional Security Controls. In addition to the Security Measures, GrowReel will make the Additional Security Controls available to: (a) allow Customer to take steps to secure Customer Data; and (b) provide Customer with information about securing, accessing and using Customer Data.

7.1.4 GrowReel’s Security Assistance. Customer agrees that GrowReel will (taking into account the nature of the processing of Customer Personal Data and the information available to GrowReel) assist Customer in ensuring compliance with any of Customer’s obligations in respect of security of personal data and personal data breaches, including if applicable Customer’s obligations pursuant to Articles 32 to 34 (inclusive) of the GDPR, by:

implementing and maintaining the Security Measures in accordance with Section 7.1.1 (GrowReel’s Security Measures);
making the Additional Security Controls available to Customer in accordance with Section 7.1.3 (Additional Security Controls);
complying with the terms of Section 7.2 (Data Incidents); and
providing Customer with the Security Documentation in accordance with Section 7.5.1 (Reviews of Security Documentation) and the information contained in the Agreement including these Terms.
7.2 Data Incidents

7.2.1 Incident Notification. If GrowReel becomes aware of a Data Incident, GrowReel will: (a) notify Customer of the Data Incident promptly and without undue delay after becoming aware of the Data Incident; and (b) promptly take reasonable steps to minimize harm and secure Customer Data.

7.2.2 Details of Data Incident. Notifications made pursuant to this section will describe, to the extent possible, details of the Data Incident, including steps taken to mitigate the potential risks and steps GrowReel recommends Customer take to address the Data Incident.

7.2.3 Delivery of Notification. Notification(s) of any Data Incident(s) will be delivered to the Notification Email Address or, at GrowReel’s discretion, by direct communication (for example, by phone call or an in-person meeting). Customer is solely responsible for ensuring that the Notification Email Address is current and valid.

7.2.4 No Assessment of Customer Data by GrowReel. GrowReel will not assess the contents of Customer Data in order to identify information subject to any specific legal requirements. Without prejudice to GrowReel’s obligations under this Section 7.2 (Data Incidents), Customer is solely responsible for complying with incident notification laws applicable to Customer and fulfilling any third party notification obligations related to any Data Incident(s).

7.2.5 No Acknowledgement of Fault by GrowReel. GrowReel’s notification of or response to a Data Incident under this Section 7.2 (Data Incidents) will not be construed as an acknowledgement by GrowReel of any fault or liability with respect to the Data Incident.

7.3 Customer’s Security Responsibilities and Assessment.

7.3.1 Customer’s Security Responsibilities. Customer agrees that, without prejudice to GrowReel’s obligations under Section 7.1 (GrowReel’s Security Measures, Controls and Assistance) and Section 7.2 (Data Incidents):

Customer is solely responsible for its use of the Services, including:
making appropriate use of the Services and the Additional Security Controls to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk in respect of the Customer Data;
securing the account authentication credentials, systems and devices Customer uses to access the Services;
backing up its Customer Data as appropriate; and
GrowReel has no obligation to protect copies of Customer Data that Customer elects to store or transfer outside of GrowReel’s and its Subprocessors’ systems (for example, offline or on-premises storage), or to protect Customer Data by implementing or maintaining Additional Security Controls except to the extent Customer has opted to use them.
7.3.2 Customer’s Security Assessment.

Customer is solely responsible for reviewing the Security Documentation and evaluating for itself whether the Services, the Security Measures, the Additional Security Controls and GrowReel’s commitments under this Section 7 (Data Security) will meet Customer’s needs, including with respect to any security obligations of Customer under the European Data Protection Legislation and/or Non-European Data Protection Legislation, as applicable.
Customer acknowledges and agrees that (taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing of Customer Personal Data as well as the risks to individuals) the Security Measures implemented and maintained by GrowReel as set out in Section 7.1.1 (GrowReel’s Security Measures) provide a level of security appropriate to the risk in respect of the Customer Data.
7.4 Security Certifications and Reports. GrowReel will do the following to evaluate and help ensure the continued effectiveness of the Security Measures:

maintain the ISO 27001 Certification, ISO 27017 Certification and ISO 27018 Certification; and
update the SOC 2 Report and SOC 3 Report at least once every 18 months.
7.5 Reviews and Audits of Compliance

7.5.1 Reviews of Security Documentation. In addition to the information contained in the Agreement (including these Terms), GrowReel will make available for review by Customer the following documents and information to demonstrate compliance by GrowReel with its obligations under these Terms:

the certificates issued in relation to the ISO 27001 Certification, the ISO 27017 Certification and the ISO 27018 Certification;
the then-current SOC 3 Report; and
the then-current SOC 2 Report, following a request by Customer in accordance with Section 7.5.3(a).
7.5.2 Customer’s Audit Rights.

If the European Data Protection Legislation applies to the processing of Customer Personal Data, GrowReel will allow Customer or an independent auditor appointed by Customer to conduct audits (including inspections) to verify GrowReel’s compliance with its obligations under these Terms in accordance with Section 7.5.3 (Additional Business Terms for Reviews and Audits). GrowReel will contribute to such audits as described in Section 7.4 (Security Certifications and Reports) and this Section 7.5 (Reviews and Audits of Compliance).
If Customer has entered into Model Contract Clauses as described in Section 10.2 (Transfers of Data Out of the EEA), GrowReel will, without prejudice to any audit rights of a supervisory authority under such Model Contract Clauses, allow Customer or an independent auditor appointed by Customer to conduct audits as described in the Model Contract Clauses in accordance with Section 7.5.3 (Additional Business Terms for Reviews and Audits).
Customer may also conduct an audit to verify GrowReel’s compliance with its obligations under these Terms by reviewing the Security Documentation (which reflects the outcome of audits conducted by GrowReel’s Third Party Auditor).
7.5.3 Additional Business Terms for Reviews and Audits.

Customer must send any requests for reviews of the SOC 2 Report under Section 7.5.1(c) or audits under Section 7.5.2(a) or 7.5.2(b) to GrowReel’s Data Protection Team as described in Section 12 (Data Protection Team; Processing Records).
Following receipt by GrowReel of a request under Section 7.5.3(a), GrowReel and Customer will discuss and agree in advance on: (i) the reasonable date(s) of and security and confidentiality controls applicable to any review of the SOC 2 Report under Section 7.5.1(c); and (ii) the reasonable start date, scope and duration of and security and confidentiality controls applicable to any audit under Section 7.5.2(a) or 7.5.2(b).
GrowReel may charge a fee (based on GrowReel’s reasonable costs) for any review of the SOC 2 Report under Section 7.5.1(c) and/or audit under Section 7.5.2(a) or 7.5.2(b). GrowReel will provide Customer with further details of any applicable fee, and the basis of its calculation, in advance of any such review or audit. Customer will be responsible for any fees charged by any auditor appointed by Customer to execute any such audit.
GrowReel may object in writing to an auditor appointed by Customer to conduct any audit under Section 7.5.2(a) or 7.5.2(b) if the auditor is, in GrowReel’s reasonable opinion, not suitably qualified or independent, a competitor of GrowReel, or otherwise manifestly unsuitable. Any such objection by GrowReel will require Customer to appoint another auditor or conduct the audit itself.
7.5.4 No Modification of MCCs. Nothing in this Section 7.5 (Reviews and Audits of Compliance) varies or modifies any rights or obligations of Customer or GrowReel under any Model Contract Clauses entered into as described in Section 10.2 (Transfers of Data Out of the EEA).

8. Impact Assessments and Consultations
Customer agrees that GrowReel will (taking into account the nature of the processing and the information available to GrowReel) assist Customer in ensuring compliance with any obligations of Customer in respect of data protection impact assessments and prior consultation, including if applicable Customer’s obligations pursuant to Articles 35 and 36 of the GDPR, by:

providing the Additional Security Controls in accordance with Section 7.1.3 (Additional Security Controls) and the Security Documentation in accordance with Section 7.5.1 (Reviews of Security Documentation); and
providing the information contained in the Agreement including these Terms.
9. Data Subject Rights; Data Export
9.1 Access; Rectification; Restricted Processing; Portability. During the Term, GrowReel will, in a manner consistent with the functionality of the Services, enable Customer to access, rectify and restrict processing of Customer Data, including via the deletion functionality provided by GrowReel as described in Section 6.1 (Deletion by Customer), and to export Customer Data.

9.2 Data Subject Requests

9.2.1 Customer’s Responsibility for Requests. During the Term, if GrowReel receives any request from a data subject in relation to Customer Personal Data, GrowReel will advise the data subject to submit their request to Customer and Customer will be responsible for responding to any such request including, where necessary, by using the functionality of the Services.

9.2.2 GrowReel’s Data Subject Request Assistance. Customer agrees that GrowReel will (taking into account the nature of the processing of Customer Personal Data) assist Customer in fulfilling any obligation to respond to requests by data subjects, including if applicable Customer’s obligation to respond to requests for exercising the data subject’s rights laid down in Chapter III of the GDPR, by:

providing the Additional Security Controls in accordance with Section 7.1.3 (Additional Security Controls); and
complying with the commitments set out in Section 9.1 (Access; Rectification; Restricted Processing; Portability) and Section 9.2.1 (Customer’s Responsibility for Requests).
10. Data Transfers
10.1 Data Storage and Processing Facilities Customer may select where certain Customer Data will be stored (the "Data Location Selection"), and GrowReel will store it there in accordance with the Service Specific Terms. If a Data Location Selection is not covered by the Service Specific Terms (or a Data Location Selection is not made by Customer in respect of any Customer Data), GrowReel may, subject to Section 10.2 (Transfers of Data Out of the EEA), store and process the relevant Customer Data anywhere GrowReel or its Subprocessors maintains facilities.

10.2 Transfers of Data Out of the EEA.

10.2.1 GrowReel’s Transfer Obligations. If the storage and/or processing of Customer Personal Data involves transfers of Customer Personal Data out of the EEA, and the European Data Protection Legislation applies to the transfers of such data (“Transferred Personal Data”), GrowReel will:

if requested to do so by Customer, ensure that GrowReel as the data importer of the Transferred Personal Data enters into Model Contract Clauses with Customer as the data exporter of such data, and that the transfers are made in accordance with such Model Contract Clauses; and/or
offer an Alternative Transfer Solution, ensure that the transfers are made in accordance with such Alternative Transfer Solution, and make information available to Customer about such Alternative Transfer Solution.
10.2.2 Customer’s Transfer Obligations. In respect of Transferred Personal Data, Customer agrees that:

if under the European Data Protection Legislation GrowReel reasonably requires Customer to enter into Model Contract Clauses in respect of such transfers, Customer will do so; and
if under the European Data Protection Legislation GrowReel reasonably requires Customer to use an Alternative Transfer Solution offered by GrowReel, and reasonably requests that Customer take any action (which may include execution of documents) strictly required to give full effect to such solution, Customer will do so.
10.3 Data Center Information. 

10.4 Disclosure of Confidential Information Containing Personal Data. If Customer has entered into Model Contract Clauses as described in Section 10.2 (Transfers of Data Out of the EEA), GrowReel will, notwithstanding any term to the contrary in the Agreement, ensure that any disclosure of Customer's Confidential Information containing personal data, and any notifications relating to any such disclosures, will be made in accordance with such Model Contract Clauses.

11. Subprocessors
11.1 Consent to Subprocessor Engagement. Customer specifically authorizes the engagement as Subprocessors of: (a) those entities listed as of the Terms Effective Date at the URL specified in Section 11.2 (Information about Subprocessors); and (b) all other GrowReel Affiliates from time to time. In addition, Customer generally authorizes the engagement as Subprocessors of any other third parties (“New Third Party Subprocessors”). If Customer has entered into Model Contract Clauses as described in Section 10.2 (Transfers of Data Out of the EEA), the above authorizations will constitute Customer’s prior written consent to the subcontracting by GrowReel of the processing of Customer Data if such consent is required under the Model Contract Clauses.

11.2 Requirements for Subprocessor Engagement. When engaging any Subprocessor, GrowReel will:

ensure via a written contract that:
the Subprocessor only accesses and uses Customer Data to the extent required to perform the obligations subcontracted to it, and does so in accordance with the Agreement (including these Terms) and any Model Contract Clauses entered into or Alternative Transfer Solution adopted by GrowReel as described in Section 10.2 (Transfers of Data Out of the EEA); and
if the GDPR applies to the processing of Customer Personal Data, the data protection obligations set out in Article 28(3) of the GDPR, as described in these Terms, are imposed on the Subprocessor; and
remain fully liable for all obligations subcontracted to, and all acts and omissions of, the Subprocessor.
11.3 Opportunity to Object to Subprocessor Changes.

When any New Third Party Subprocessor is engaged during the Term, GrowReel will, at least 30 days before the New Third Party Subprocessor processes any Customer Data, inform Customer of the engagement (including the name and location of the relevant subprocessor and the activities it will perform) by sending an email to the Notification Email Address.
Customer may object to any New Third Party Subprocessor by terminating the Agreement immediately upon written notice to GrowReel, on condition that Customer provides such notice within 90 days of being informed of the engagement of the subprocessor as described in Section 11.4(a). This termination right is Customer’s sole and exclusive remedy if Customer objects to any New Third Party Subprocessor.
12. Data Protection Team; Processing Records

12.1 GrowReel’s Processing Records. Customer acknowledges that GrowReel is required under the GDPR to: (a) collect and maintain records of certain information, including the name and contact details of each processor and/or controller on behalf of which GrowReel is acting and, where applicable, of such processor’s or controller's local representative and data protection officer; and (b) make such information available to the supervisory authorities. Accordingly, if the GDPR applies to the processing of Customer Personal Data, Customer will, where requested, provide such information to GrowReel via the Admin Console or other means provided by GrowReel, and will use the Admin Console or such other means to ensure that all information provided is kept accurate and up-to-date.

13. Liability
13.1 Liability Cap. If Model Contract Clauses have been entered into as described in Section 10.2 (Transfers of Data Out of the EEA), the total combined liability of either party and its Affiliates towards the other party and its Affiliates under or in connection with the Agreement and such Model Contract Clauses combined will be limited to the Agreed Liability Cap for the relevant party, subject to Section 13.2 (Liability Cap Exclusions).

13.2 Liability Cap Exclusions. Nothing in Section 13.1 (Liability Cap) will affect the remaining terms of the Agreement relating to liability (including any specific exclusions from any limitation of liability).

14. Third Party Beneficiary
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, where GrowReel is not a party to the Agreement, GrowReel will be a third party beneficiary of Section 7.5 (Reviews and Audits of Compliance), Section 11.1 (Consent to Subprocessor Engagement) and Section 13 (Liability) of these Terms.

15. Effect of These Terms
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, to the extent of any conflict or inconsistency between these Terms and the remaining terms of the Agreement, these Terms will govern.

Appendix 1: Subject Matter and Details of the Data Processing
Subject Matter

GrowReel’s provision of the Services and TSS to Customer.

Duration of the Processing

The Term plus the period from the expiry of the Term until deletion of all Customer Data by GrowReel in accordance with the Terms.

Nature and Purpose of the Processing

GrowReel will process Customer Personal Data for the purposes of providing the Services and TSS to Customer in accordance with the Terms.

Categories of Data

Data relating to individuals provided to GrowReel via the Services, by (or at the direction of) Customer or by Customer End Users.

Data Subjects

Data subjects include the individuals about whom data is provided to GrowReel via the Services by (or at the direction of) Customer or by Customer End Users.

Appendix 2: Security Measures
As from the Terms Effective Date, GrowReel will implement and maintain the Security Measures set out in this Appendix 2. GrowReel may update or modify such Security Measures from time to time provided that such updates and modifications do not result in the degradation of the overall security of the Services.

1. Data Center and Network Security

(a) Data Centers.

Infrastructure. GrowReel maintains geographically distributed data centers. GrowReel stores all production data in physically secure data centers.

Redundancy. Infrastructure systems have been designed to eliminate single points of failure and minimize the impact of anticipated environmental risks. Dual circuits, switches, networks or other necessary devices help provide this redundancy. The Services are designed to allow GrowReel to perform certain types of preventative and corrective maintenance without interruption. All environmental equipment and facilities have documented preventative maintenance procedures that detail the process for and frequency of performance in accordance with the manufacturer’s or internal specifications. Preventative and corrective maintenance of the data center equipment is scheduled through a standard change process according to documented procedures.

Power. The data center electrical power systems are designed to be redundant and maintainable without impact to continuous operations, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. In most cases, a primary as well as an alternate power source, each with equal capacity, is provided for critical infrastructure components in the data center. Backup power is provided by various mechanisms such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) batteries, which supply consistently reliable power protection during utility brownouts, blackouts, over voltage, under voltage, and out-of-tolerance frequency conditions. If utility power is interrupted, backup power is designed to provide transitory power to the data center, at full capacity, for up to 10 minutes until the diesel generator systems take over. The diesel generators are capable of automatically starting up within seconds to provide enough emergency electrical power to run the data center at full capacity typically for a period of days.

Server Operating Systems. GrowReel servers use a Linux based implementation customized for the application environment. Data is stored using proprietary algorithms to augment data security and redundancy. GrowReel employs a code review process to increase the security of the code used to provide the Services and enhance the security products in production environments.

Businesses Continuity. GrowReel replicates data over multiple systems to help to protect against accidental destruction or loss. GrowReel has designed and regularly plans and tests its business continuity planning/disaster recovery programs.

(b) Networks and Transmission.

Data Transmission. Data centers are typically connected via high-speed private links to provide secure and fast data transfer between data centers. This is designed to prevent data from being read, copied, altered or removed without authorization during electronic transfer or transport or while being recorded onto data storage media. GrowReel transfers data via Internet standard protocols.

External Attack Surface. GrowReel employs multiple layers of network devices and intrusion detection to protect its external attack surface. GrowReel considers potential attack vectors and incorporates appropriate purpose built technologies into external facing systems.

Intrusion Detection. Intrusion detection is intended to provide insight into ongoing attack activities and provide adequate information to respond to incidents. GrowReel’s intrusion detection involves:

tightly controlling the size and make-up of GrowReel’s attack surface through preventative measures;
employing intelligent detection controls at data entry points; and
employing technologies that automatically remedy certain dangerous situations.
Incident Response. GrowReel monitors a variety of communication channels for security incidents, and GrowReel’s security personnel will react promptly to known incidents.

Encryption Technologies. GrowReel makes HTTPS encryption (also referred to as SSL or TLS connection) available. GrowReel servers support ephemeral elliptic curve Diffie-Hellman cryptographic key exchange signed with RSA and ECDSA. These perfect forward secrecy (PFS) methods help protect traffic and minimize the impact of a compromised key, or a cryptographic breakthrough.

2. Access and Site Controls

(a) Site Controls.

On-site Data Center Security Operation. GrowReel’s data centers maintain an on-site security operation responsible for all physical data center security functions 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The on-site security operation personnel monitor closed circuit TV (CCTV) cameras and all alarm systems. On-site security operation personnel perform internal and external patrols of the data center regularly.

Data Center Access Procedures. GrowReel maintains formal access procedures for allowing physical access to the data centers. The data centers are housed in facilities that require electronic card key access, with alarms that are linked to the on-site security operation. All entrants to the data center are required to identify themselves as well as show proof of identity to on-site security operations. Only authorized employees, contractors and visitors are allowed entry to the data centers. Only authorized employees and contractors are permitted to request electronic card key access to these facilities. Data center electronic card key access requests must be made through e-mail, and require the approval of the requestor’s manager and the data center director. All other entrants requiring temporary data center access must: (i) obtain approval in advance from the data center managers for the specific data center and internal areas they wish to visit; (ii) sign in at on-site security operations; and (iii) reference an approved data center access record identifying the individual as approved.

On-site Data Center Security Devices. GrowReel’s data centers employ an electronic card key and biometric access control system that is linked to a system alarm. The access control system monitors and records each individual’s electronic card key and when they access perimeter doors, shipping and receiving, and other critical areas. Unauthorized activity and failed access attempts are logged by the access control system and investigated, as appropriate. Authorized access throughout the business operations and data centers is restricted based on zones and the individual’s job responsibilities. The fire doors at the data centers are alarmed. CCTV cameras are in operation both inside and outside the data centers. The positioning of the cameras has been designed to cover strategic areas including, among others, the perimeter, doors to the data center building, and shipping/receiving. On-site security operations personnel manage the CCTV monitoring, recording and control equipment. Secure cables throughout the data centers connect the CCTV equipment. Cameras record on site via digital video recorders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The surveillance records are retained for up to 30 days based on activity.

(b) Access Control.

Infrastructure Security Personnel. GrowReel has, and maintains, a security policy for its personnel, and requires security training as part of the training package for its personnel. GrowReel’s infrastructure security personnel are responsible for the ongoing monitoring of GrowReel’s security infrastructure, the review of the Services, and responding to security incidents.

Access Control and Privilege Management. Customer’s administrators must authenticate themselves via a central authentication system or via a single sign on system in order to administer the Services.

Internal Data Access Processes and Policies – Access Policy. GrowReel’s internal data access processes and policies are designed to prevent unauthorized persons and/or systems from gaining access to systems used to process personal data. GrowReel designs its systems to (i) only allow authorized persons to access data they are authorized to access; and (ii) ensure that personal data cannot be read, copied, altered or removed without authorization during processing, use and after recording. The systems are designed to detect any inappropriate access. GrowReel employs a centralized access management system to control personnel access to production servers, and only provides access to a limited number of authorized personnel. LDAP, Kerberos and a proprietary system utilizing SSH certificates are designed to provide GrowReel with secure and flexible access mechanisms. These mechanisms are designed to grant only approved access rights to site hosts, logs, data and configuration information. GrowReel requires the use of unique user IDs, strong passwords, two factor authentication and carefully monitored access lists to minimize the potential for unauthorized account use. The granting or modification of access rights is based on: the authorized personnel’s job responsibilities; job duty requirements necessary to perform authorized tasks; and a need to know basis. The granting or modification of access rights must also be in accordance with GrowReel’s internal data access policies and training. Approvals are managed by workflow tools that maintain audit records of all changes. Access to systems is logged to create an audit trail for accountability. Where passwords are employed for authentication (e.g., login to workstations), password policies that follow at least industry standard practices are implemented. These standards include restrictions on password reuse and sufficient password strength. For access to extremely sensitive information (e.g. credit card data), GrowReel uses hardware tokens.

3. Data

(a) Data Storage, Isolation and Logging. GrowReel stores data in a multi-tenant environment on GrowReel servers. The data and file system architecture are replicated between multiple geographically dispersed data centers. GrowReel also logically isolates the Customer’s data. Customer will be given control over specific data sharing policies. Those policies, in accordance with the functionality of the Services, will enable Customer to determine the product sharing settings applicable to Customer End Users for specific purposes. Customer may choose to make use of certain logging capability that GrowReel may make available via the Services.

(b) Decommissioned Disks and Disk Erase Policy. Disks containing data may experience performance issues, errors or hardware failure that lead them to be decommissioned (“Decommissioned Disk”). Every Decommissioned Disk is subject to a series of data destruction processes (the “Disk Erase Policy”) before leaving GrowReel’s premises either for reuse or destruction. Decommissioned Disks are erased in a multi-step process and verified complete by at least two independent validators. The erase results are logged by the Decommissioned Disk’s serial number for tracking. Finally, the erased Decommissioned Disk is released to inventory for reuse and redeployment. If, due to hardware failure, the Decommissioned Disk cannot be erased, it is securely stored until it can be destroyed. Each facility is audited regularly to monitor compliance with the Disk Erase Policy.

4. Personnel Security

GrowReel personnel are required to conduct themselves in a manner consistent with the company’s guidelines regarding confidentiality, business ethics, appropriate usage, and professional standards. GrowReel conducts reasonably appropriate backgrounds checks to the extent legally permissible and in accordance with applicable local labor law and statutory regulations.

Personnel are required to execute a confidentiality agreement and must acknowledge receipt of, and compliance with, GrowReel’s confidentiality and privacy policies. Personnel are provided with security training. Personnel handling Customer Data are required to complete additional requirements appropriate to their role (eg., certifications). GrowReel’s personnel will not process Customer Data without authorization.

5. Subprocessor Security

Before onboarding Subprocessors, GrowReel conducts an audit of the security and privacy practices of Subprocessors to ensure Subprocessors provide a level of security and privacy appropriate to their access to data and the scope of the services they are engaged to provide. Once GrowReel has assessed the risks presented by the Subprocessor, then subject to the requirements set out in Section 11.3 (Requirements for Subprocessor Engagement) of these Terms, the Subprocessor is required to enter into appropriate security, confidentiality and privacy contract terms.